Scam is an 18 year old student at Stuyvesant high school. He is graduating in a matter of weeks. He is going to be attending Boston University in the Fall as part of the newish Faculty of Computing and Data Sciences. He is 5’6” but was much shorter for much of his upbringing and so he remains obsessed with his height. He was diagnosed with celiac at 10 years old and continues to eat gluten free. For his 18th birthday, he ate gluten pizza for the first time since his original diagnosis. It was glorious, he said.


Sam is a very big sports fan. He is a fan of the Mets and often wishes he was not, but alas, he is hooked. His favorite players are Pete Alonso and Francisco Lindor. He misses Jacob deGrom. He likes to talk about the autographs he has from various Mets players. He won a Trevor May autographed baseball by receiving an honorable mention in May’s Minecraft Building Competition, which he streamed on Twitch in 2021. His sister, Claire, also won a May signed jersey for receiving third place in the contest. Sam usually doesn’t mention that every participant received an honorable mention, as he is still proud of his build, which was a monument to 10 baseball figures who died in 2020 and early 2021. Sam also has a Noah Syndergaard autographed ball, a Christmas gift from his mother. He also has a Francisco Alvarez signed baseball which he got when Alvarez was playing for the single-A Brooklyn Cyclones. Sam often mentions that Alvarez was extremely kind about the whole proceeding. Now that Alvarez is starring in MLB, Sam is even more excited about this. Sam also has a Brandon Nimmo autographed baseball, which he received at Spring Training in 2023.


Sam is also a Nets fan in basketball. When the Nets moved to Brooklyn in 2012, he lived within walking distance of the Barclays Center, and would go to many games last-minute with his dad. Eventually, his dad bought season tickets and for several years, although he is not planning to do so without Sam living at home anymore during basketball season, has taken Sam to approximately 12 games per season. Sam’s favorite basketball player is Kevin Durant. He vividly remembers going to game 7  between the Nets and the Bucks in the 2021 Eastern Conference Semifinals, and seeing Durant put up a monster performance, and tying the game and sending it to overtime on a long two in which if Durant’s foot was slightly smaller, he would have been behind the three point line and won the game. Sam was disappointed in the ultimate overtime loss but believes it to be one of his favorite moments he’s seen in person.


Sam follows the Giants in football. He vaguely follows Fulham FC in English football after going to London and watching a game from a near front-row seat, which he purchased from a friend, not knowing it was so expensive and up-close. 


Sam also traveled to Italy with his family in 2022. Also to Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands later in 2022 with just his grandmother, after the rest of his family was infected with Covid. Miraculously, Sam was able to go on the trip, and although he initially believed he had Covid too, and would be stuck in Ecuador in quarantine, he soon realized that he was not actually infected. After this, Sam was able to fulfill a lifelong dream and swim with sea lions off the coast of Floreana Island. He maintains that the sea lions were majestic and playful. 


Sam’s favorite animal as a child was seals, and his love of pinnipeds has extended into his high school years. He leaves open the possibility of traveling to Ireland for a summer to work as an intern for Seal Rescue Ireland, if the nonprofit wants a data scientist.


Sam is somewhat of an elections nerd, having been hooked on fivethirtyeight during the 2020 cycle, and now is a lurking member of election twitter, the twitter community also known as ET, which discusses past and current elections. He hopes to one day develop an election predicting model, and has dreams of working in politics or political data journalism using data science to uncover election or policy trends.


Sam’s other career dream is to be a data scientist for a professional sports team, especially baseball. He is concerned that this is a very hard career to get a job in, so he is not totally focused on it. He does think it would be a very fun job, although it pays shockingly little - he could make over twice as much working as a data scientist at a large tech company.


His first semester, senior year, Sam took six classes: Ap US Gov, Science Fiction (English), Systems Level Programming (CS), Anthropology, AP Calculus BC, and Software development.


His second semester, coming to a close in a few days, has seen him taking AP Calculus BC and Software Development again. But he is taking other courses too - Ap Comparative Government, AP Macroeconomics, Existentialism (English), and Forensic Science.


Sam reads a lot of Science Fiction, and so was excited to take the english class that Stuyvesant offers in it. He very much enjoyed the creative writing assignments involved in the class. He wrote a short story about a man in a hotel room with a ghost-like creature called a ghlaere. He also wrote a longer short story, which he later developed into an interactive website with images, called 2062. 2062 surrounded a futuristic NYC in 2062, in a world where holographic technology has filled the world (or at least the city) with personalized advertisements. The technology also allows for people to use virtual reality to do certain everyday things as holograms. The story is about the current mayor of NYC, Sidney Hargrave, running for re-election against an anonymous virtual character named John Doe. She hires a private investigator to figure out information about the notoriously private Doe, and he eventually finds that Doe is actually an AI attached to a public AI engine, created by a man named Jon living in an illegal basement apartment. As Doe has already won the election, Hargrave blackmails Jon into working together to use more holographic AIs to try to stop a Cold War in India and Pakistan from escalating. The two end up establishing a democratic government in Turkmenistan, with an AI named Suleyman, acting as activist turned politician at the helm. Sidney grapples with the ethical issues of this, but believes they are doing good.


Sam enjoyed anthropology much more than he expected, and it was a much better science elective experience than forensics, which is extremely boring to him. Sam thinks he may do research or take classes in anthropology in college, despite being a data science major.


Sam enjoyed the 2023 World Baseball Classic, the first such event since 2017. He really enjoyed the rivalries between teams, and how special the tournament was to the players. He watched many of the tournament games during his software development class.


Sam took six years of Spanish between Middle and High School and intends to continue the language in college. He often uses spanish greetings or phrases for no particular reason, such as Hola, estoy bien, béisbol, que lástima, and dónde está la biblioteca

Sam intends on studying abroad in college. He hopes to do so in a spanish-speaking baseball country, such as the Dominican Republic, Cuba, Panama, Nicaragua, or Mexico. He also hopes to see the baseball culture in Japan, Korea, and Palau, a small pacific island nation where baseball is the most popular sport.



Some of Sam’s favorite TV shows are as follows
Psych
Sherlock
Stranger Things
The Good Place
Lupin
Queen's Gambit
Ted Lasso


Some of Sam’s favorite movies include:
The Departed
The Imitation Game
Space Jam
Solaris


Some of Sam’s favorite musical artists include:
Matt Maeson
Mos Def (Yasiin Bey)
Gift of Gab
Brother Ali

Sam's favorite teacher during his senior year was Mr. Mykolyk, his Software Development teacher, who he maintains is the greatest teacher of all time.